README.md, before:

# Genome Annotator

This is a simple example package. You can use
[Github-flavored Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/)
to write your content.

# Installation

```bash
conda create -y --name gen-annotator python=3.10
source activate /path/to/environment/gen-annotator
conda install -y -c conda-forge mamba
# Download all of the dependencies
mamba install -y -c conda-forge -c bioconda python=3.10 \
        sqlite prodigal idba mcl muscle=3.8.1551 famsa hmmer diamond \
        blast megahit spades bowtie2 bwa graphviz "samtools>=1.9" \
        trimal iqtree trnascan-se fasttree vmatch r-base r-tidyverse \
        r-optparse r-stringi r-magrittr bioconductor-qvalue meme ghostscript
mamba install -y -c bioconda fastani
# Grab the latest anvio version
curl -L https://github.com/merenlab/anvio/releases/download/v8/anvio-8.tar.gz --output anvio-8.tar.gz
pip install anvio-8.tar.gz
pip install fastani
```

```bash
- anvi-setup-pfams
  https://github.com/merenlab/anvio/blob/master/anvio/pfam.py#L55
- OR, I can download it directly for them into the lib

- anvi-setup-ncbi-cogs (Run_COGs)

- anvi-setup-kegg-kofams (Run_Kegg)
```

## Download NCBI's datasets

```bash
conda install -y -c conda-forge ncbi-datasets-cli
```

- pip install rast

#### Issue with CAZYME:

If the genome is too small and nothing was annotated, it gives an error!

- Probably have some sort of:
  $ genome-annotator --setup-dbs  
  Line

### Workflow for users:

1. Install the conda package ($ conda install -c bioconda genome-annotator)
2. Run the database configuration script ($ annotator --init-dbs {all,cazyme,cogs,kegg,pfam,rast,tigr

Commit message:

Readme updates and printing from annotate.smk

README.md, after:

# Genome Annotator

This is a simple example package. You can use
[Github-flavored Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/)
to write your content.

## Start Here :-)
So installation here is a little robust due to the nature of how many programs are used. In order for everything to work smoothly, there are 3 main considerations:  
<code style="color : red">First</code> is the virtual environment you will be in while executing the pipeline. You want to make sure you are in a virtual environment so all the dependencies can play nice.  
<code style="color : red">Second</code> is the programs you install. You will need access to a lot of different programs, which should be housed within your virtual environment.  
<code style="color : red">Third</code> is the databases needed to annotate your data. Some programs have built in data permutations, but many require outside databases in order to compare your data to external data.  

The next thing to consider is how to run the program. There are <code style="color : green">3 snakemake</code> files: Download.smk, Filter.smk, and Annotate.smk. Each can be assess with the command: <code>\$ genotator [download | filter | annotate] ...params</code>. So you choose either the download, filter, or annotate command. Note that everything is chained together such as <code>download --> filter --> annotate</code>, so if you run filter, you're also running download. If you run annotate, you're also running download and filter. See below for detailed instructions on how to run the program.

## Installation
<code style="color : red">Part 1: Create an isolated virtual environment using conda.</code> See [conda documentation](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html) for more details on conda.

```bash
conda create -y --name gen-annotator python=3.10
source activate /path/to/environment/gen-annotator
conda install -y -c conda-forge mamba
```
### Download all of the dependencies
<code style="color : red">Part 2: Install all the dependencies</code>. Sorry there are so many :anguished:

```bash
mamba install -y -c conda-forge -c bioconda python=3.10 \
        sqlite prodigal idba mcl muscle=3.8.1551 famsa hmmer diamond \
        blast megahit spades bowtie2 bwa graphviz "samtools>=1.9" \
        trimal iqtree trnascan-se fasttree vmatch r-base r-tidyverse \
        r-optparse r-stringi r-magrittr bioconductor-qvalue meme ghostscript
mamba install -y -c bioconda fastani  

# Grab the latest anvio version
curl -L https://github.com/merenlab/anvio/releases/download/v8/anvio-8.tar.gz --output anvio-8.tar.gz
pip install anvio-8.tar.gz
pip install fastani
```
Below is where we setup some databases through the Anvi'o suite.

```bash
- anvi-setup-pfams
  https://github.com/merenlab/anvio/blob/master/anvio/pfam.py#L55
- OR, I can download it directly for them into the lib

- anvi-setup-ncbi-cogs (Run_COGs)

- anvi-setup-kegg-kofams (Run_Kegg)
```

### Download NCBI's datasets

```bash
conda install -y -c conda-forge ncbi-datasets-cli
```
### Now for some miscellaneous installs
<code style="color : red">Note that RAST may be finnicky</code> :bowtie:  
- pip install rast


##<span style="color:red">Common Issues</span>
#### CazYME:

If the genome is too small and nothing was annotated, it gives an error!

- Probably have some sort of:
  $ genome-annotator --setup-dbs  
  Line

### Workflow for users:

1. Install the conda package ($ conda install -c bioconda genome-annotator)
2. Run the database configuration script ($ annotator --init-dbs {all,cazyme,cogs,kegg,pfam,rast,tigr

<hr style="border:5px solid">

#<span style="color:green">User Guide</span>
